## GOVERNMENT GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA

| N$4.00 | WINDHOEK - 20 December 2013 | No. 5369 |
|---|---|---|

## CONTENTS

| | | Page |
|---|---|---|
## GENERAL NOTICES

No. 511 Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Reduction in Fixed and Mobile Termination Rates 1

No. 512 Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences 2

No. 513 Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations Regarding the Submissions of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs 3

## General Notices

## COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

No. 511 2013

## REDUCTION IN FIXED AND MOBILE TERMINATION RATES

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia herewith gives notice that, in consultation with the relevant licensees, it has reduced the mobile and fixed termination rates effective from 1 November 2013 as follows:

(i) Mobile termination rate (MTR) N$ 0.20
(ii) Fixed termination rate (FTR) N$ 0.20
(iii) SMS N$ 0.01

Section 2(k) of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009) states that the objects of the Act are "to ensure fair competition and consumer protection in the telecommunications sector." Call termination is a monopoly and overwhelming international evidence exists that cost-based termination rates encourage competition and affordable pricing.

Cost-based termination rates remove market distortions and provide efficient investment incentives. The net effect of fair competition is lower costs of communication, better services and more equitable returns on investment for all operators. It is therefore clear that by lowering termination rates this objective of the Act will be fulfilled.

## K.T. MUFETI
## CRAN BOARD MEMBER
## COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY

## COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

No. 512 2013

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING LICENSING PROCEDURES FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND BROADCASTING SERVICE LICENCES AND SPECTRUM USE LICENCES

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of regulation 5, 6 and 11 of the "Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences", in Government Gazette No. 4785, Notice No. 272, dated 29 August 2011, herewith gives notice that the Applicant referred to in the table below have submitted the following applications to the Authority:

## (a) Broadcasting Service Licence Application:

| Applicant's Name; | Applicant's citizenship or place of incorporation; | Percentage of Stock owned by Namibian Citizens or Namibian Companies controlled by Namibian Citizens; | Category of Broadcasting Service Licence as contemplated in the Regulations Setting out Broadcasting and Telecommunications Service Licence categories; | Provision of Signal Distribution; | Whether applicant intends to use spectrum in the provision of broadcasting services intended to be provided; | Proof of Application fees paid up to date submitted? |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Hardap Radio Trust t/a Hardap Radio | Namibian | 100% | Community Broadcasting Service Licence | Own | Yes, application is contained in part (b) below. | Yes |

## (b) Spectrum Use Licence Application

| Applicant's Name; | Applicant's citizenship or place of incorporation; | Percentage of Stock owned by Namibian Citizens or Namibian Companies controlled by Namibian Citizens; | List of radio frequencies or groups of radio frequencies applied for; | List of radio frequencies or groups of radio frequencies considered by Authority for assignment; | Provision of Signal Distribution; | Description of geographic coverage areas(s) Region; | Description of geographic coverage areas(s) District; | Description of geographic coverage areas(s) City/Town | Service to be provided using frequency applied for; | Proof of Application fees paid up to date submitted? Yes/No |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Hardap Radio Trust t/a Hardap Radio | Namibian | 100% | 88-108 MHz | 88.5 MHz | Own | Hardap | Mariental | Mariental | Community Broadcasting Service | Yes |

The public may submit comments in writing to the Authority within a period of fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette.

The applicant may submit written reply comments within fourteen (14) days from date of notification of the written public comments.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submission is made, if different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically -

(1) By hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
(2) By post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek 9000;
(3) By electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na;
(4) By facsimile to the following facsimile number: +264 61 222790; or
(5) By fax to e-mail to: 0886550852.

## K.T. MUFETI
## CRAN BOARD MEMBER
## COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY

## COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

No. 513 2013

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING THE SUBMISSIONS OF INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENTS AND TARIFFS

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of regulation 8 of the "Regulations Regarding the Submission of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs", in Government Gazette No. 4714, Notice No. 126, dated 18 May 2011, herewith gives notice that Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd has filed a tariff with the Authority as set out in Schedule 1.

Any person may examine copies of the tariffs submitted at the head offices of the Authority during normal business hours and copies may be made on payment of a fee determined by the Authority. Copies are also available at www.cran.na where copies may be downloaded free of charge.

The public may submit in writing to the Authority written comments within fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette.

Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd may submit, in writing to the Authority, a response to any written comments within fourteen (14) days from the lapsing of the time to submit written submissions.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submissions is made, if different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically -

(1) by hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
(2) by post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek 9000;
(3) by electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na; and
(4) by facsimile to the following facsimile number: +264 61 222790.
(5) by fax to e-mail to: 0886550852

## K.T. MUFETI
## CRAN BOARD MEMBER
## COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY

## SCHEDULE 1

## SUBMISSION OF NATIONAL STANDARD 4G BROADBAND (WIMAX) BUNDLES AND VOICE TARIFFS BY PARATUS TELECOMMUNICATIONS (PTY) LTD COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

## 1. National Standard 4G Broadband (WiMAX) bundles

| New Pricing Product | Bandwidth Speeds | Cap | Standard Monthly Fee | Reseller Monthly Fee |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Entry Level | 4 Mbps DOWN/ 2 Mbps UP * | 10GB | N$ 299-00 | N$ 270-00 |
| Soho | 4 Mbps DOWN/ 2 Mbps UP * | 20GB | N$ 550-00 | N$ 500-00 |
| Business | 4 Mbps DOWN/ 2 Mbps UP * | 40GB | N$ 999-00 | N$ 910-00 |
| Professional | 4 Mbps DOWN/ 2 Mbps UP * | 80GB | N$ 1 850-00 | N$ 1 680-00 |

* Bandwidth Speeds listed indicate maximum transmission speed and is not guaranteed
* Installation Fee at N$ 800-00

(a) Pricing based on a 24 months contract and Excludes 15% Value Added Tax (VAT)
(b) Recharge bandwidth at N$ 80-00 per Gig
(c) Standard Terms and Conditions Apply

## 2. Voice Tariffs (per minute)

NOTE: Standard National Rate fixed at N$ 0.77 (exclusive of Value Added Tax (VAT)) per minute.

| | STANDARD RATE N$ (Excl VAT) | PREMIUM RATE N$ (Excl VAT) | RESELLER RATE N$ (Excl VAT) |
|---|---|---|---|
| Intra Company | 0.26 | 0.25 | 0.22 |
| National | 0.77 | 0.72 | 0.68 |
| Mobile | 0.77 | 0.72 | 0.68 |
| Republic of South Africa (Fixed) | 1.48 | 1.43 | 1.43 |
| Republic of South Africa (Mobile) | 2.16 | 2.09 | 2.09 |
| Angola (Fixed) | 2.32 | 2.25 | 2.25 |
| Angola (Mobile) | 2.40 | 2.32 | 2.32 |
| Botswana, Lesotho, Mozambique, Swaziland, Zambia, Zimbabwe (Fixed) | 1.79 | 1.74 | 1.74 |
| Botswana, Lesotho, Mozambique, Swaziland, Zambia, Zimbabwe (Mobile) | 2.33 | 2.26 | 2.26 |
| Germany (Fixed) | 2.98 | 2.89 | 2.89 |
| Germany (Mobile) | 3.47 | 3.37 | 3.37 |
| United Kingdom (Fixed) | 3.01 | 2.92 | 2.92 |
| United Kingdom (Mobile) | 3.50 | 3.40 | 3.40 |
| Netherlands (Fixed) | 3.51 | 3.40 | 3.40 |
| Netherlands (Mobile) | 4.08 | 3.96 | 3.96 |
| Sweden, Switzerland (Fixed) | 3.57 | 3.46 | 3.46 |
| Sweden, Switzerland (Mobile) | 4.20 | 4.07 | 4.07 |
| Spain, Australia, France, Kenya (Fixed) | 3.46 | 3.36 | 3.36 |
| Spain, Australia, France, Kenya (Mobile) | 4.06 | 3.94 | 3.94 |
| United States of America (Fixed and Mobile) | 3.48 | 3.38 | 3.38 |
| Rest of the World | 4.71 | 4.57 | 4.57 |

## NOTES:

(a) Standard Terms and Conditions Apply
(b) All Pricing exclude 15% Value Added Tax (VAT)
(c) Premium Rates are applicable to Corporate Customers buying existing Data Services from Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd
(d) Reseller Rates are applicable on Resellers of Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd, reselling Voice Services to their existing customers.
