## GOVERNMENT GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA

N$9.60

WINDHOEK - 25 July 2018

No. 6658

## CONTENTS

Page

| General Notice No. | Description | Page |
|---|---|---|
| [No. 377](#no-377) | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulation 19(1) Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences | 2 |
| [No. 378](#no-378) | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of section 53(7) of the Communications Act (No 8 of 2009) read with the Regulations Regarding the Submission of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs | 4 |
| [No. 379](#no-379) | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations Regarding the Submissions of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs | 4 |
| [No. 380](#no-380) | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations Prescribing the National Numbering Plan for use in the provision of Telecommunications Services in the Republic of Namibia, Numbering Licence Fees and Procedures for Number Licences: Communications Act, 2009 | 7 |
| [No. 381](#no-381) | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations Prescribing the National Numbering Plan for use in the provision of Telecommunications Services in the Republic of Namibia, Numbering Licence Fees and Procedures for Number Licences: Communications Act, 2009 | 10 |
| [No. 382](#no-382) | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences | 12 |

---

## No. 377

### NOTICE IN TERMS OF REGULATION 19(1) OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING LICENSING PROCEDURES FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND BROADCASTING SERVICE LICENCES AND SPECTRUM USE LICENCES

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms Regulation 19(1) of the 'Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences', in Government Gazette No. 4785, Notice No. 272, dated 29 August 2011 (as amended), herewith gives notice of the following decisions, which decisions are effective from date of this Gazette:

### 1. Application for Withdrawal of Commercial Broadcasting Service License - Downlink Namibia (Pty) Ltd

The Authority resolved to withdraw Downlink Namibia's Commercial Broadcasting Service Licence effective from date on which it is published in this Gazette.

### 2. Application for a Class Comprehensive ECS & ECNS Telecommunications Service Licence and Spectrum Use Licence - Q-Kon Namibia (Pty) Ltd

The Authority resolved to decline the application of a Class Comprehensive Telecommunications Service Licence (ECS and ECNS) by Q-Kon Namibia (Pty) Ltd.

### 3. Application for a Class Network Facilities Telecommunications Service Licence - Atlas Towers (Pty) Ltd

The Authority resolved to decline the application for a Class Network Facilities Telecommunications Service Licence submitted by Atlas Towers (Pty) Ltd.

### 4. Application for a Class Comprehensive Telecommunications Service Licence - Capricorn Connect (Pty) Ltd

The Authority resolved to award a Class Comprehensive Telecommunications Service Licence to Capricorn Connect (Pty) Ltd.

### 5. Application for Extension of Time to Commence Provision of Telecommunications Services - Focus Engineering CC

The Authority resolved to grant a final six (6) months extension to Focus Engineering CC to commence providing telecommunication services effective from date on which it is published in this Gazette.

### 6. Application for Reconsideration: Extension of Time to Commence Providing Services, Spectrum Use license - MTN Business (Pty) Ltd (Re.: spectrum in 2.3 GHz)

The Authority reconsidered its decision of 27 March 2018, and resolved to grant an extension to MTN Business Solutions (Namibia)(Pty) Ltd to utilize its spectrum licence for 2387-2397 MHz for a period of six (6) months from the date of publication of the final notice in this Gazette.

### 7. Application for Amendment of Spectrum Licence and Temporary Spectrum – Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd

The Authority resolved to:

a) Amend the spectrum use licence awarded to Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd for 2505.000-2525.000 MHz and 2625.000-2645.000 MHz to allow for the provision of fixed and mobile services to facilitate the implementation of a TDD-LTE network; and
b) Award a temporary spectrum use licence for a period of ten (10) months, where after it will automatically return to the Authority, without any notice to the licensee.

### 8. Application for Spectrum Licence in 1800 MHz - Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd

The Authority resolved to award a spectrum use licences to Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd for the provision of 4G (LTE) mobile services as indicated below -

1.1-1.2 MHz paired with 1840.0-1840.2 MHz (2x 0.2 MHz).

### 9. Determination of Lapsing of Broadcasting Service License - Capricorn Radio CC

The Authority resolved to cancel the spectrum use licence awarded to Capricorn Radio CC for 102.3 MHz.

### 10. Application for a Class Network Facilities Telecommunications Service Licence – Lightstruck Operating Company (Pty) Ltd

The Authority resolved to decline the application for a Class Network Facilities Telecommunications Service Licence submitted by Lightstruck Operating Company (Pty) Ltd.

### 11. Application for renewal of a Community Broadcasting Service Licence - Live FM

The Authority resolved to decline the renewal of the Community Broadcasting Service Licence awarded to Live FM and resolved to cancel the Spectrum Use Licence for 90.3 MHz in the geographical area of Rehoboth as awarded.

Kindly take note that the full reasons for all the decisions can be requested from the Authority. Further, in terms of section 31 of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009) the Authority may, on its own motion or on a petition filed by an aggrieved party to any proceedings, reconsider any order or decision that it has made, within 90 days from the date of making that decision or issuing that order.

**F. KISHI**  
**CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD DIRECTORS**  
**COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA**

---

## No. 378

### NOTICE IN TERMS OF SECTION 53 (7) OF THE COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009 READ WITH THE REGULATIONS REGARDING THE SUBMISSIONS OF INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENTS AND TARIFFS

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms section 53(1) and (7) of the Communications Act read with regulation 8 of the 'Regulations Regarding the Submission of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs', in Government Gazette No. 4714, Notice No. 126, dated 18 May 2011, herewith gives notice that it has approved:

1. Jet Products tariff as submitted by MWireless (Pty) Ltd t/a Africa Online, which came into force and effect on 1 July 2018, notwithstanding date of publication of the notice in the Gazette; and
2. The proposed tariffs of LTE and Omajova packages as submitted by Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd, which came into force and effect on 1 July 2018, notwithstanding date of publication of the notice in the Gazette.

Please note that the full tariff submission and reasons for approval can be obtained from the Authority.

**F. KISHI**  
**CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD DIRECTORS**  
**COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA**

---

## No. 379

### NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING THE SUBMISSIONS OF INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENTS AND TARIFFS

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of section 53(10) of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009) read together with regulation 8(1) of the Regulations Regarding the Submission of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs, published in Government Gazette No. 4714, Notice No. 126, dated 18 May 2011, herewith gives notice that the following licensees have filed tariffs with the Authority:

1. Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd, LTE Pre-paid Pricing Amendment as set out in Schedule 1.
2. Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd, VoIP Rates Amendment for 2018 as set out in Schedule 2.
3. MWireless (Pty) Ltd t/a Africa Online, Jola Extreme Tariffs as set out in Schedule 3.

Any person may examine copies of the tariffs at the head offices of the Authority during business hours and copies may be made on payment of a fee determined by the Authority. Copies of the tariffs can also be downloaded from the Authority's website, www.cran.na, free of charge.

The public may submit in writing to the Authority written comments within fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette.

Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd and MWireless (Pty) Ltd t/a Africa Online may submit, in writing to the Authority, a response to any written comments within fourteen (14) days from the lapsing of the time to submit written submissions.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submissions is made, if different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically -

(1) by hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
(2) by post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek 9000;
(3) by electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na; and
(4) by facsimile to the following facsimile number: +264 61 222790.
(5) by fax to e-mail to: 0886550852.

**F. MBANDEKA**  
**CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER**  
**COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA**

### SCHEDULE 1

### SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED NEW LTE PRE-PAID TARIFFS BY PARATUS TELECOMMUNICATIONS, COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

#### LTE Pre-paid Pricing Amendment

| Product Name | GB | Price (exc VAT) | Accessories |
|:---|:---|:---|:---|
| BYO | 5 | N$ 100.00 | Sim only |
| Gerenimo | 15 | N$ 1,500.00 | Wingle & Sim |

Please note that the full tariff submission including the terms and conditions and the remedies available to the consumers can be obtained from the Authority

### SCHEDULE 2

### SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED NEW VOIP TARIFFS BY PARATUS TELECOMMUNICATIONS, COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

| Destination / Service | Current Standard Rate N$ (Ex.VAT)/Min | Proposed Standard Rate N$ (Ex.VAT)/Min |
|:---|:---|:---|
| Intra-Company | 0.28 | 0.20 |
| Local | 0.77 | 0.70 |
| National | 0.77 | 0.70 |
| Mobile | 0.77 | 0.70 |
| RSA (Fixed) | 1.48 | 1.65 |
| RSA (Mobile) | 2.16 | 2.95 |
| Angola (Fixed) | 2.32 | 4.00 |
| Angola (Mobile) | 2.40 | 4.50 |
| Botswana, Swaziland (Fixed) | 1.79 | 2.20 |
| Botswana, Swaziland (Mobile) | 2.33 | 2.95 |
| Lesotho, Mozambique (Fixed) | 1.79 | 3.50 |
| Lesotho, Mozambique (Mobile) | 2.33 | 3.50 |
| Zambia (Fixed) | 1.79 | 3.50 |
| Zambia (Mobile) | 2.33 | 3.95 |
| Zimbabwe (Fixed) | 1.79 | 3.75 |
| Zimbabwe (Mobile) | 2.33 | 4.25 |
| Kenya (Fixed) | 3.46 | 3.50 |
| Kenya (Mobile) | 4.06 | 4.15 |
| Germany (Fixed) | 2.98 | 3.00 |
| Germany (Mobile) | 3.47 | 3.50 |
| UK (Fixed) | 3.01 | 3.50 |
| UK (Mobile) | 3.50 | 3.50 |
| Netherlands (Fixed) | 3.51 | 3.50 |
| Netherlands (Mobile) | 4.08 | 4.15 |
| Sweden, Switzerland (Fixed) | 3.57 | 3.50 |
| Sweden, Switzerland (Mobile) | 4.20 | 4.15 |
| Australia (Fixed) | 3.46 | 5.75 |
| Australia (Mobile) | 4.06 | 6.00 |
| Spain, France (Fixed) | 3.46 | 3.50 |
| Spain, France (Mobile) | 4.06 | 4.00 |
| USA (Fixed & Mobile) | 3.48 | 3.50 |
| China | 4.71 | 5.00 |
| Rest of the world | 4.71 | 6.75 |

### SCHEDULE 3

### SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED TARIFFS BY TELECOM NAMIBIA LIMITED, COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The following are the proposed tariffs as submitted by Africa Online:

| Service Plan | Data Cap (GB) | Kbps Download | Kbps Upload | Retail Price (N$) |
|:---|:---|:---|:---|:---|
| WECA Home 5GB | 5 | 18000 | 512 | 699 |
| WECA HOME 10GB | 10 | 18000 | 512 | 999 |
| WECA Home 20GB | 20 | 18000 | 512 | 1699 |
| WECA Home 30GB | 30 | 18000 | 512 | 2299 |
| WECA Home 50GB | 50 | 20000 | 512 | 3499 |
| WECA Home 100GB | 100 | 20000 | 512 | 5299 |
| WECA Home 200GB | 200 | 20000 | 512 | 9999 |
| WECA Pro 100GB | 100 | 30000 | 512 | 9499 |
| WECA Pro 200GB | 200 | 35000 | 512 | 17999 |
| WECA Pro 350GB | 350 | 35000 | 512 | 29999 |

Additional Information:

- Free nights from 23h00-04h00 UTC on all service plans (Except WECA Home 5GB)
- Download speeds are "up to" in kbps
- Upload speeds are guaranteed 512 kbps
- Minimum contract period: 24 months
- Pro Service plans include a /32 IP address; access to /30-/27 subnet IPs available at additional charge
- Pro service plans are reduced to 0.25Mbps after reaching monthly data allowance
- Home service plans redirected to customer portal after reaching monthly data allowance

Please note that the full tariff submission including the terms and conditions and the remedies available to the consumers can be obtained from the Authority.

---

## No. 380

### NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS PRESCRIBING THE NATIONAL NUMBERING PLAN FOR USE IN THE PROVISION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES IN THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA, NUMBERING LICENCE FEES AND PROCEDURES FOR NUMBER LICENCES: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia in terms of Regulation 14(4) of the Regulations regarding the National Numbering Plan for Namibia for use in the provision of Telecommunications Services in the Republic of Namibia, Numbering Licence Fees and Procedures for Number Licences as published in Government Gazette No. 5983, General Notice No. 97 dated 1 April 2016, herewith gives notice that the person referred to in the table below, complied with the transitioning arrangements for number licences as set out in Regulation 14 and the Authority has awarded number licenses as follows:

| Field | Value |
|---|---|
| **Applicant's Name** | Mobile Telecommunications Limited |
| **Applicant's Citizenship or place of incorporation** | Namibia |
| **Percentage of Stock owned by Namibian Citizens or Namibian Companies controlled by Namibian Citizens** | 100% |
| **Number Category** | Electronic Communications (81) |
| **Number of Blocks considered to be transitioned by the Authority** | 75 |
| **Description of geographic coverage area(s)** | The Republic of Namibia |
| **Service to be provided** | Electronic Communications |
| **Numbers to be considered for transitioning (Start-End)** | 810300000 - 810399999<br>810400000 - 810499999<br>811000000 - 811099999<br>811200000 - 811299999<br>811300000 - 811399999<br>811400000 - 811499999<br>811500000 - 811599999<br>811600000 - 811699999<br>811700000 - 811799999<br>811800000 - 811899999<br>812000000 - 812099999<br>812100000 - 812199999<br>812200000 - 812299999<br>812300000 - 812399999<br>812400000 - 812499999<br>812500000 - 812599999<br>812600000 - 812699999<br>812800000 - 812899999<br>812900000 - 812999999<br>813000000 - 813099999<br>813100000 - 813199999<br>813200000 - 813299999<br>813300000 - 813399999<br>813400000 - 813499999<br>813500000 - 813599999<br>813600000 - 813699999<br>813700000 - 813799999<br>813800000 - 813899999<br>813900000 - 813999999<br>814000000 - 814099999<br>814100000 - 814199999<br>814200000 - 814299999<br>814300000 - 814399999<br>814400000 - 814499999<br>814500000 - 814599999<br>814600000 - 814699999<br>814700000 - 814799999<br>814800000 - 814899999<br>814900000 - 814999999<br>815100000 - 815199999<br>815200000 - 815299999<br>815500000 - 815599999<br>815600000 - 815699999<br>815700000 - 815799999<br>815800000 - 815899999<br>815900000 - 815999999<br>816000000 - 816099999<br>816100000 - 816199999<br>816200000 - 816299999<br>816300000 - 816399999<br>816400000 - 816499999<br>816500000 - 816599999<br>816600000 - 816699999<br>816700000 - 816799999<br>816800000 - 816899999<br>816900000 - 816999999<br>817000000 - 817099999<br>817100000 - 817199999<br>817200000 - 817299999<br>817300000 - 817399999<br>817400000 - 817499999<br>817500000 - 817599999<br>817600000 - 817699999<br>817700000 - 817799999<br>817800000 - 817899999<br>817900000 - 817999999<br>818000000 - 818099999<br>818100000 - 818199999<br>818200000 - 818299999<br>818300000 - 818399999<br>818400000 - 818499999<br>818500000 - 818599999<br>818600000 - 818699999<br>818700000 - 818799999<br>818800000 - 818899999<br>818900000 - 818999999 |

The award is subject to the licensee obligations as set out in Regulations regarding the National Numbering Plan for Namibia for Use in the Provision of Telecommunications Services in the Republic of Namibia, Numbering Licence Fees and Procedures for Number Licences and relevant provisions of the Communications Act.

The licensee or any other persons aggrieved by this decision may submit a petition to the Authority for reconsideration in terms of section 31 of the Communications Act.

**F.K. MBANDEKA**  
**CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER**  
**COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA**

---

## No. 381

### NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS PRESCRIBING THE NATIONAL NUMBERING PLAN FOR USE IN THE PROVISION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES IN THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA, NUMBERING LICENCE FEES AND PROCEDURES FOR NUMBER LICENCES: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia in terms of Regulation 14(4) of the Regulations regarding the National Numbering Plan for Namibia for use in the provision of Telecommunications Services in the Republic of Namibia, Numbering Licence Fees and Procedures for Number Licences as published in Government Gazette No. 5983, General Notice No. 97 dated 01 April 2016, herewith gives notice that the person referred to in the table below, complied with the transitioning arrangements for number licences as set out in Regulation 14 and the Authority has awarded number licenses as follows:

| Field | Value |
|---|---|
| **Applicant's Name** | Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd |
| **Applicant's Citizenship or place of incorporation** | Namibia |
| **Percentage of Stock owned by Namibian Citizens or Namibian Companies controlled by Namibian Citizens** | 73.5% |
| **Number Category** | Electronic Communications (83) |
| **Number of Blocks considered to be transitioned by the Authority** | 26 |
| **Description of geographic coverage area(s)** | The Republic of Namibia |
| **Service to be provided** | Electronic Communications |
| **Numbers to be considered for transitioning (Start-End)** | 830000000-830099999<br>830200000-830299999<br>831000000-831099999<br>831400000-831499999<br>832000000-832099999<br>832200000-832299999<br>832300000-832399999<br>832500000-832599999<br>832600000-832699999<br>832700000-832799999<br>832900000-832999999<br>833000000-833099999<br>833700000-833799999<br>833800000-833899999<br>834000000-834099999<br>834100000-834199999<br>837000000-837099999<br>837200000-837299999<br>837600000-837699999<br>837800000-837899999<br>838000000-838099999 |

The award is subject to the licensee obligations as set out in Regulations regarding the National Numbering Plan for Namibia for Use in the Provision of Telecommunications Services in the Republic of Namibia, Numbering Licence Fees and Procedures for Number Licences and relevant provisions of the Communications Act.

The licensee or any other persons aggrieved by this decision may submit a petition to the Authority for reconsideration in terms of section 31 of the Communications Act.

**F.K. MBANDEKA**  
**CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER**  
**COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA**

---

## No. 382

### NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING LICENSING PROCEDURES FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND BROADCASTING SERVICE LICENCES AND SPECTRUM USE LICENCES

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of regulation 11 of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences, as published in Government Gazette No. 4785, General Notice No. 272, dated 29 August 2011 (as amended), herewith gives notice that the Applicants referred to in the table below have submitted the following applications to the Authority:

### a) Application for a Class Comprehensive Telecommunications Service Licence (ECS & ECNS)

| Field | Value |
|---|---|
| **Applicant** | Virtua Technologies (Pty) Ltd |
| **Applicant's Citizenship or place of incorporation** | Namibian |
| **Percentage of Stock owned by Namibian Citizens or Namibian Companies controlled by Namibian Citizens** | 100% |
| **Category of Class Telecommunications service applied for** | Class Comprehensive Telecommunications Service Licence (ECS & ECNS) |
| **Does applicant intend to use spectrum in the provision of the telecommunication service?** | The Applicant intends to use spectrum in the spectrum exempt band as contained in the Regulations Regarding Licence Exempt Spectrum. |
| **Concise statement on Services intended to be provided** | Electronic Communications |
| **Description of geographic coverage area(s)** | Republic of Namibia or any part thereof |
| **Proof of Licence Application Fees Paid Up to Date Submitted?** | Yes |

### b) Application for Withdrawal of Spectrum Use Licences

| Licensee | Licensee's Citizenship or Place of Incorporation | Percentage of Stock Owned by Namibian Citizens / Companies | Type of Service Licence | Description of Geographic Coverage Area(s) | List of Frequencies Withdrawn | Service Provided with Withdrawn Frequencies | Concise Statement of Reasons for Proposed Withdrawal | Proof of Licence Application Fees Paid Up to Date Submitted? | Date on which Licensee Intends to Permanently Discontinue Service |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| MultiChoice Namibia (Pty) Ltd | Namibia | 51% | Commercial Broadcasting Services Licence | Khomas Windhoek Polytechnic | 578 MHz | Commercial Broadcasting Service | DVB-H broadcasting not commercially viable due to low subscriber take-up | Yes | 31-Aug-18 |
| MultiChoice Namibia (Pty) Ltd | Namibia | 51% | Commercial Broadcasting Services Licence | Khomas Windhoek Windhoek Hohe | 578 MHz | Commercial Broadcasting Service | DVB-H broadcasting not commercially viable due to low subscriber take-up | Yes | 31-Aug-18 |

### c) Application for a Commercial Broadcasting Service Licence

| Field | Value |
|---|---|
| **Applicant's Name** | John Nangombe Walenga |
| **Applicant's Citizenship or place of incorporation** | Namibian |
| **Percentage of Stock owned by Namibian Citizens or Namibian Companies Controlled by Namibian Citizens** | 100% |
| **Category of Broadcasting service licence as contemplated in the Regulations Setting out Broadcasting and Telecommunications Service Licence categories** | Commercial Broadcasting Service |
| **Provision of signal distribution** | Own |
| **Whether applicant intends to use spectrum in the provision of broadcasting services intended to be provided** | Yes |
| **Proof of Application fees paid up to date submitted?** | Yes |

### d) Application for a Spectrum Use Licence

- **Applicant's Name**: John Nangombe Walenga
- **Applicant's Citizenship or place of incorporation**: Namibia
- **Percentage of Stock owned by Namibian Citizens / Companies**: 100%
- **List of radio Frequencies or group of frequencies applied for**: 88 - 108 MHz
- **Service to be provided using frequencies applied for**: Commercial Broadcasting FIXED
- **Party providing Signal Distribution**: Own

| List of radio Frequencies or group of frequencies being considered for assignment by the Authority | Region | District | City/Town (Site Name) | Maximum Output Power |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| 105.9 MHz | Otjozondjupa | Grootfontein | Signaalberg | 2000 W |
| 107.2 MHz | Omusati | Ruacana | Ruacana Powercom Tower | 100 W |
| 100.1 MHz | Ohangwena | Eenhana | Eenhana Powercom Tower | 500 W |
| 107.3 MHz | Karas | Keetmanshoop | Keetmanshoop Powercom Tower | 100 W |
| 91.2 MHz | Karas | Luderitz | Luderitz NBC Tower | 100 W |
| 90.5 MHz | Oshikoto | Omuthiya | Omuthiya Powercom Tower | 100 W |
| 101.2 MHz | Hardap | Mariental | Mariental Powercom Tower | 100 W |
| 104.0 MHz | Otjozondjupa | Okahandja | Okahandja Powercom Tower | 500 W |
| 93.1 MHz | Caprivi | Katima Mulilo | Katima Mulilo NBC Tower | 1000 W |
| 107.7 MHz | Karas | Oranjemund | Oranjemund NBC Tower | 100 W |
| 93.6 MHz | Omusati | Outapi | Outapi Powercom Tower | 100 W |
| 106.3 MHz | Kavango | Rundu | Arendsness NBC Tower | 1000 W |
| 105.9 MHz | Otjozondjupa | Otjiwarongo | Klein Waterberg NBC Tower | 2000 W |
| 96.8 MHz | Oshana | Oshakati | Oshakati NBC Tower | 2000 W |
| 88.3 MHz | Erongo | Swakopmund | Rossing Mountain NBC Tower | 2000 W |
| 105.8 MHz | Hardap | Rehoboth | Rehoboth Powercom Tower | 100 W |

The public may submit comments in writing to the Authority within a period of fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette.

The Applicants may submit written reply comments within fourteen (14) days from date of notification of the written public comments.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submission is made, if different, and be clear and concise.

All written submissions must be made either physically or electronically -

(1) By hand to the head offices of the Authority at Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
(2) By post to the head offices of the Authority, Private Bag 13309, Windhoek 9000;
(3) By electronic mail to legal@cran.na;
(4) By facsimile to +264 61 222790; or
(5) By fax to e-mail to 088642748.

**F. K. MBANDEKA**  
**CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER**  
**COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA**
