# GOVERNMENT GAZETTE

## OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA

N$11.40 | WINDHOEK - 28 September 2020 | No. 7344
--- | --- | ---

### CONTENTS

| GENERAL NOTICES | Page |
|---|---|
| [No. 399](#no-399) Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of regulation 19(1) of the Regulations regarding Licensing procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting service Licences: Communications Act, 2009 | 1 |
| [No. 400](#no-400) Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of regulation 4(7) of the Regulations Prescribing Procedures Regarding Application for, and Amendment, Renewal, Transfer and Cancellation of Spectrum License: Communications Act, 2009 | 2 |
| [No. 401](#no-401) Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of regulation 4(7) of the Regulations Prescribing Procedures Regarding Application for, and Amendment, Renewal, Transfer and Cancellation of Spectrum License: Communications Act, 2009 | 5 |
| [No. 402](#no-402) Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice of Intention to Amend the Regulations Prescribing Procedures Regarding Application for, and Amendment, Renewal, Transfer and Cancellation of Spectrum Licences: Communications Act, 2009 | 6 |

---

## General Notices

## COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

### No. 399

**NOTICE IN TERMS OF REGULATION 19(1) OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING LICENSING PROCEDURES FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND BROADCASTING SERVICE LICENCES: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009**

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia in terms of regulation 11 of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences, as published in Government Gazette No. 4785, General Notice No. 272, on 29 August 2011, herewith gives notice that the Applicant listed in the table below submitted an application for a Commercial Broadcasting Service License:

| Applicant | Applicant's place of incorporation | Percentage of Stock owned by Namibian Citizens or Namibian Companies controlled by Namibian Citizens | Category of Broadcasting Service License | Party providing Signal Distribution | Whether Licensee intends to use spectrum in the provision of broadcasting service intended to be provided | License Fees Outstanding |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Otji Investments CC t/a Otji FM | Namibia | 100% | Commercial Broadcasting Service License | Own | Yes | No |

The public may submit comments in writing to the Authority within a period of fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this Notice in the Gazette.

The Applicant may submit written reply comments within fourteen (14) days from the due date of the written public comments.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submission is made, if different, and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically by –

- **a)** Hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- **b)** Post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek 9000;
- **c)** Electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na;
- **d)** Facsimile to the following facsimile number: +264 61 222790; or
- **e)** Fax to e-mail to: 088642748.

**J. TRAUT**  
**ACTING CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER**  
**COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA**

---

### No. 400

**NOTICE IN TERMS OF REGULATION 4(7) OF THE REGULATIONS PRESCRIBING PROCEDURES REGARDING APPLICATION FOR, AND AMENDMENT, RENEWAL, TRANSFER AND CANCELLATION OF SPECTRUM LICENSES: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009**

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of regulation 4(7) of the Regulations Prescribing Procedures Regarding Application for, and Amendment, Renewal, Transfer and Cancellation of Spectrum Licenses, published as General Notice No. 104, Government Gazette No. 6888, on 29 April 2019, herewith gives notice that the following applications for radio frequency spectrum were submitted:

#### a)

| Applicant | Applicant's place of incorporation | Percentage of Stock owned by Namibian Citizens or Namibian Companies controlled by Namibian Citizens | List of radio Frequencies or group of frequencies applied for | Radio Frequency being considered for assignment by the Authority | Maximum Output power | Geographical coverage area | Service to be provided using frequencies applied for | Party providing Signal Distribution |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Gospel Mission Ministries t/a Kairos Radio | Namibia | 100% | 87.5 - 108 MHz | 105.0 MHz | 500 W | //Karas Region Keetmanshoop | FM Broadcasting | Own |

#### b)

| Applicant | Applicant's place of incorporation | Percentage of Stock owned by Namibian Citizens or Namibian Companies controlled by Namibian Citizens | List of radio Frequencies or group of frequencies applied for | List of radio Frequencies being considered for assignment by the Authority | Maximum Output power | Geographic coverage areas | Service to be provided using frequencies applied for | Party providing Signal Distribution |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Otji Investments cc t/a Otji FM | Namibia | 100% | 87.5 - 108 MHz | 102.3 MHz | 500 W | Otjozondjupa Region Otjiwarongo | FM Broadcasting | Own |
| | | | | 102.2 MHz | 500 W | Omaheke Region Otjinene | FM Broadcasting | Party providing Signal Distribution |
| | | | | 97.8 MHz | 100 W | Otjozondjupa Region Gam | FM Broadcasting | |
| | | | | 93.7 MHz | 500 W | Kavango East Region Rundu | FM Broadcasting | |
| | | | | 94.6 MHz | 500 W | //Karas Region Keetmanshoop | FM Broadcasting | |

#### c)

| Applicant | Applicant's place of incorporation | Percentage of Stock owned by Namibian Companies controlled by Namibian Citizens | Type of service license | List of radio frequencies or groups of radio frequencies applied for | List of radio frequencies or groups of radio frequencies being considered for assignment by the Authority | Geographic coverage area | License Fees Outstanding | Service to be provided using frequency applied for |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Mobile Telecommunications Pty Ltd | Namibian | 100% | Class Comprehensive Telecommunications service licence (ECS & ECNS) | Downlink 10.7-11.7 GHz<br>Uplink 13.75-14.8 GHz | Downlink 2 (Center) 11008 MHz Bandwidth (5 MHz)<br>Uplink (Center) 14047.5 MHz Bandwidth (5 MHz) | National | No | Fixed Satellite Services (VSAT) |

The public may submit comments in writing to the Authority within a period of fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this Notice in the Gazette.

Written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions or the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submission is made, and must be clear and concise.

Written submissions must be made either physically or electronically:

- **(1)** By hand at the head offices of the Authority: Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- **(2)** By post to the head offices of the Authority: Private Bag 13309, Windhoek, Namibia;
- **(3)** By electronic mail to: legal@cran.na;
- **(4)** By facsimile to: +264 61 222790; or
- **(5)** By fax to e-mail to: 088642748.

**J. TRAUT**  
**ACTING CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER**  
**COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA**

---

### No. 401

**NOTICE IN TERMS OF REGULATION 4(7) OF THE REGULATIONS PRESCRIBING PROCEDURES REGARDING APPLICATION FOR, AND AMENDMENT, RENEWAL, TRANSFER AND CANCELLATION OF SPECTRUM LICENSES: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009**

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of regulation 4(7) of the Regulations Prescribing Procedures Regarding Application for, and Amendment, Renewal, Transfer and Cancellation of Spectrum Licenses, published as General Notice No. 104, Government Gazette No. 6888, on 29 April 2019, herewith gives notice that the following applications for radio frequency spectrum were submitted:

| Applicant | Applicant's place of incorporation | Percentage of Stock owned by Namibian Citizens or Namibian Companies controlled by Namibian Citizens | List of radio Frequencies or group of frequencies applied for | Radio Frequency being considered for assignment by the Authority | Geographical coverage area | Maximum Output power | Service to be provided using frequencies applied for | Party providing Signal Distribution |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Shalom Messenger Ministry | Namibia | 100% | 87.5 - 108 MHz | 100.6 MHz | Omindabi, Outapi, Omusati Region | 500 W | FM Broadcasting | Own |

The public may submit comments in writing to the Authority within a period of fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette.

Written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions or the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submission is made, and must be clear and concise.

Written submissions must be made either physically or electronically:

- **(1)** By hand at the head offices of the Authority: Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- **(2)** By post to the head offices of the Authority: Private Bag 13309, Windhoek, Namibia;
- **(3)** By electronic mail to: legal@cran.na;
- **(4)** By facsimile to: +264 61 222790; or
- **(5)** By fax to e-mail to: 088642748.

**J. TRAUT**  
**ACTING CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER**  
**COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA**

---

### No. 402

**NOTICE OF INTENTION TO AMEND THE REGULATIONS PRESCRIBING PROCEDURES REGARDING APPLICATION FOR, AND AMENDMENT, RENEWAL, TRANSFER AND CANCELLATION OF SPECTRUM LICENCES: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009**

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia in terms of section 101(14) and section 101(16) read with section 129 of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009) and regulation 4(3) of the Regulations Regarding Rule-Making Procedures published as General Notice No. 334 of 17 December 2010 publishes this notice of intention to amend the Regulations Prescribing Procedures Regarding Application for, and Amendment, Renewal, Transfer and Cancellation of Spectrum Licences, which contains the following:

1. The concise statement of the purpose for the proposed amendment of the Regulations set out in Schedule 1.
2. The draft of the proposed amendment of the Regulations set out in Schedule 2; and

The public may make written submissions to the Authority no later than 30 days from the date of publication of this notice of intention to amend the Regulations, in the manner set out below for making written submissions.

Reply comments to written submissions may be submitted to the Authority -

- **(a)** no later than 15 days after the time for the making of written submissions has lapsed; or
- **(b)** if the opportunity for the submission of reply comments is published in a subsequent Gazette, after the lapse of 14 days from the date of such publication.

All written submissions must-

- **(a)** contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submission is made, if different; and
- **(b)** be clear and concise.

All written submissions must be sent or given in any of the following ways:

1. By hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, No 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek.
2. By post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek, 9000;
3. By electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na;
4. By fax to email to: 0886550852

**H. M. GAOMAB II**  
**CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD**  
**COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA**

---

## SCHEDULE 1

### CONCISE STATEMENT OF PURPOSE

The objects of the proposed amendment to the Regulations are to -

- **(a)** To allow for the publication in the Gazette and public comments on applications for amendment of spectrum licenses, amendments to spectrum licenses done by the Authority as well as the withdrawal of spectrum licenses.
- **(b)** Replace the table for spectrum licence exempt spectrum in Annexure B to incorporate the final Act of WRC-19 and align with the SADC SRD guidelines.

---

## SCHEDULE 2

### AMENDMENT OF THE REGULATIONS PRESCRIBING PROCEDURES REGARDING APPLICATION FOR, AND AMENDMENT, RENEWAL, TRANSFER AND CANCELLATION OF SPECTRUM LICENCES

In terms of section 101(14) and section 101(16) read with section 129 of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009) the Communications Regulatory Authority-

- **(a)** Amends the Regulations Prescribing Procedures Regarding Application for, and Amendment, Renewal, Transfer and Cancellation of Spectrum Licences published in the Government Gazette No. 6888, General Notice No. 104 dated 29 April 2019;
- **(b)** Repeals the amendment to the Regulations prescribing Procedures regarding Application for, and Amendment, Renewal, Transfer and Cancellation of Spectrum Licences published in the Government Gazette No. 7196, General Notice No. 152 dated 29 April 2020

---

## SCHEDULE

### 1. Definitions

In these regulations, any word or expression to which a meaning is assigned in the Act, shall have the same meaning and –

- **"Act"** means the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009)
- **"Regulations"** means the Regulations Prescribing Procedures Regarding Application for, and Amendment, Renewal, Transfer and Cancellation of Spectrum Licences published in the Government Gazette No. 6888, General Notice No. 104 dated 29 April 2019
- **"WRC-19"** means World Radio Conference held from 28 October 2019 to 22 November 2019 in Sharm El-Sheikh, Egypt.

### 2. Substitution of regulation 12 (9) and 12(10) of Regulations

- **(9)** The Authority must forthwith publish a notice of the aforesaid application or amendment in terms of sub-regulation (7) in the Gazette and invite the public to make written comments to the Authority within the time set out in the notice, which time may not be less than 14 days from the date of the publication.
- **(10)** The Authority will provide the opportunity to an applicant or licensee to respond to any written comments contemplated in sub-regulation (9).
- **(11)** An applicant’s or licensee’s response to public comments must be submitted in writing to the Authority within the time set out by the Authority, which time may be not less than 14 days from the deadline for the submission of public comments or if the notice for submissions of responses is published in a subsequent Gazette, not less than 14 days from the date of that publication.
- **(12)** The times for the submissions of public comments and applicant or licensee’s responses are to be determined by the Authority in lights of the nature of the application or amendment (in terms of sub-regulation 7).
- **(13)** The Authority may consider written submissions not timeously filed if, in its opinion, it is practical to do so.
- **(14)** The Authority may request further written submissions, such as for further information or clarification, which must be provided to the Authority in the time and the manner set out by the Authority.
- **(15)** All written submissions must -
  - **(a)** contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions or the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submission is made, if different;
  - **(b)** be clear and concise; and
  - **(c)** conform to any further requirements determined by the Authority from time to time.
- **(16)** After considering any application made in terms of this regulation and any written or oral submissions, if any referred to herein, the Authority may refuse or grant the application, in whole or in part.
- **(17)** If the Authority grants application the Authority must amend the spectrum license in the form determined and subject to the conditions imposed by the Authority.
- **(18)** After considering any written or oral submissions in respect of an amendment envisaged in sub-regulation 7 or in case of absence of comments thereof, the Authority may amend or refrain from amending the spectrum licence.
- **(16)** The Authority must whether or not requested by an applicant or licensee, furnish reasons for its decision to grant or amend the spectrum license.

### 3. Insertion of the following sub-regulations after regulation 16(5) of Regulations

- **(6)** The Authority must forthwith publish a notice of the aforesaid application in the Gazette and invite the public to make written comments to the Authority within the time set out in the notice, which time may not be less than 14 days from the date of the publication.
- **(7)** The Authority will provide the opportunity to an applicant to respond to any written comments contemplated in sub-regulation (6).
- **(8)** An applicant’s response to public comments must be submitted in writing to the Authority within the time set out by the Authority, which time may be not less than 14 days from the deadline for the submission of public comments or if the notice for submissions of responses is published in a subsequent Gazette, not less than 14 days from the date of that publication.
- **(9)** The times for the submissions of public comments and applicant or licensee’s responses are to be determined by the Authority in lights of the nature of the application.
- **(10)** The Authority may consider written submissions not timeously filed if, in its opinion, it is practical to do so.
- **(11)** The Authority may request further written submissions, such as for further information or clarification, which must be provided to the Authority in the time and the manner set out by the Authority.
- **(12)** All written submissions must-
  - **(a)** contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions or the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submission is made, if different;
  - **(b)** be clear and concise; and
  - **(c)** conform to any further requirements determined by the Authority from time to time.
- **(13)** After considering any application made in terms of this regulation and any written or oral submissions, if any referred to herein, the Authority may refuse or grant the application, in whole or in part.
- **(14)** The Authority must whether or not requested by an applicant or licensee, furnish reasons for its decision to withdraw or refuse to withdraw the spectrum license.

---

## ANNEXURE B

### RADIO APPARATUS EXEMPT FROM SPECTRUM LICENSE

**Explanation:**

1. The use or possession of the radio apparatus listed in Column B below, in accordance with the specifications listed in Columns A, C, D and E of the Table below does not require a spectrum license.
2. Use and possession of all radio apparatus exempt in terms of the above table must comply with the following:
   - **2.1** All radio apparatus must be type-approved by the Authority or by the Independent Communications Authority of South Africa or, upon request to the Authority, by any other regulatory authority in a country other than Namibia or South Africa.
   - **2.2** The frequencies, transmitting power and external high-gain antenna of the radio apparatus must not be altered without a new type-approved certificate issued by the Authority or any other regulatory authority referred to in paragraph 2.1.
   - **2.3** The radio apparatus must be operated within, and not exceed, the technical parameters set out in each of the applicable Columns C and D of the Table with respect to the frequency band, maximum radiated power or field strength limits and channel spacing, relevant standards and duty cycles and antennas to be used and contained in Column E.
   - **2.4** The antenna of the radio apparatus must not be higher or above average ground level than the lowest point of the place where the radio apparatus operates effectively.
   - **2.5** The radio apparatus may not cause interference with any licensed radio frequency spectrum.
   - **2.6** The user of the radio apparatus in the license-exempt frequency spectrum operates on a non-interference and zero protection basis from interference.

| Frequency band (Column A) | Typical Applications (Column B) | Maximum power or magnetic field strength (Column C) | Duty Cycle restriction (Column D) | Prescribed Channel Spacing (Column E) | Harmonised Standard (Column F) | Notes (Additional information) (Column G) |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 8.3-9 kHz | Inductive applications | 82 dBµA/m at 10m | None | None | EN 300 330 | Antenna size of < 1/20 λ (see note 1)<br>RFIDs operating in the frequency sub-band 119-135 kHz shall meet the spectrum mask given in EN 300 330. This will permit a simultaneous use of the various sub-bands within the range 90 – 148.5 kHz (Note 11) |
| 9-90 kHz | | 72 dBμA/m at 10m | | | | |
| 90-119 kHz | | 42 dBμA/m at 10m | | | | |
| 119-135 kHz | | 66 dBμA/m at 10m | | | | |
| 135-140 kHz | | 42 dBμA/m at 10m | | | | |
| 140-148.5 kHz | | 37.7 dBμA/m at 10m | | | | |
| 9-315 kHz | Active medical implants | 30 dBμA/m at 10m | <10% | None | EN 302 195 | |
| 400-600 kHz | Inductive applications | -8 dBµA/m at 10 m | None | None | EN 300 330 | For RFID only |
| 442.2-450 kHz | Tracking, Tracing and Data Acquisition | 7 dBμA/m at 10m | None | Continuous wave (CW) - no modulation, channel spacing ≥150 Hz | EN 300 330 | |
| 456.9-457.1 kHz | Tracking, Tracing and Data Acquisition | 7 dBμA/m at 10 m | None | Continuous wave (CW) at 457 kHz - no modulation | EN 300 330 | |
| 3 155-3 400 kHz | Inductive applications | 13.5 dBμA/m at 10m | None | None | EN 300 330 | ITU-R M.1076 applies<br>RR No. 5.116 applies |
| 6 765-6 795 kHz | - Inductive applications<br>- Non-specific SRDs | 42 dBμA/m at 10m | None | None | EN 300 330 | ISM band (RR No. 5.138) |
| 7 400-8 800 kHz | Inductive applications | 9 dBμA/m at 10m | None | None | EN 300 330 | |
| 10200-11000 kHz | Inductive applications | 9 dBμA/m at 10m | None | None | EN 300 330 | |
| 13553-13567 kHz | Inductive applications | 42 dBμA/m at 10m<br>60 dBμA/m at 10m (for RFID and EAS only) | None | None | EN 302 291 | ISM band (RR No. 5.150) |
| | Non-specific SRDs | 10 mW e.r.p | None | None | EN 300 330 | ISM band (RR No. 5.150) |
| 26957-27283 kHz | Inductive applications | 42 dBμA/m at 10m | None | None | EN 300 220 | ISM band (RR No. 5.150)<br>ERC/DEC/(01)16 |
| | Model control (26990-27200 kHz) | 100 mW e.r.p | None | 10 kHz | EN 300 220 | ERC/DEC/(01)10 (26.995 MHz, 27.045 MHz, 27.095 MHz, 27.145 MHz, 27.195 MHz) |
| | Non-specific SRDs | 10 mW e.r.p. | None | None | EN 300 220<br>EN 300 330 | ERC/DEC/(01)02 |
| 26990-27200 kHz | Non-specific SRDs | 100 mW e.r.p | ≤ 0.1 % | None | | |
| 29.7-47 MHz | Radio Microphones | 10 mW e.r.p. | None | ≤ 50 kHz | | |
| 30-37.5 MHz | Active Medical Implants | 1 mW e.r.p. | ≤ 10% | None | | |
| 34.995-35.225 MHz | Model Control | 100 mW e.r.p | None | 10 kHz | | Only flying models |
| 40.66-40.7 MHz | Non-specific SRDs | 10 mW e.r.p. | None | None | EN 300 220 | ISM band (RR No. 5.150)<br>ERC/DEC/(01)03 |
| | Model control | 100 mW e.r.p | None | 10 kHz | EN 300 220 | ERC/DEC/(01)12 (40.665 MHz, 40.675 MHz, 40.685 MHz, 40.695 MHz) |
| 138.2-138.45 MHz | Non-specific SRDs | 10 mW e.r.p. | ≤ 1% | None | | |
| 169.4-174 MHz | Radio Microphones | 10 mW e.r.p. | None | ≤ 50 kHz | | |
| 169.4-169.5875 MHz | Assistive listening devices | 500 mW e.r.p. | None | ≤ 50 kHz | | |
| 169.4-169.475 MHz | Tracking, Tracing and Data Acquisition | 500 mW e.r.p. | ≤ 10% | ≤ 50 kHz | | |
| 169.4-169.4875 MHz | Non-specific SRDs (169.4-169.475 MHz) | 500 mW e.r.p | ≤ 1% | ≤ 50 kHz | | |
| | Non-specific SRDs (169.4-169.4875 MHz) | 10 mW e.r.p. | ≤ 1% | | | |
| 169.4875-169.5875 MHz | Non-specific SRDs | 10 mW e.r.p. | ≤ 0.001% duty cycle except for 00:00 h to 06:00 h local time where the duty cycle limit is ≤ 0.1% | | | |
| 169.5875-169.8125 MHz | Non-specific SRDs | 10 mW e.r.p. | ≤ 0.1% | | | |
| 173.965-216 MHz | Assistive listening devices | 10 mW e.r.p. | None | ≤ 50 kHz | | |
| 174-216 MHz | Radio Microphones | 50 mW e.r.p. | None | None | | |
| 433.05-434.79 MHz | Non-specific SRDs | 10 mW e.r.p. (433.05-434.79 MHz) | <10% (Note 1) | None | EN 300 220 | (Note 2) |
| | Non-specific SRDs | 1 mW e.r.p. -13 dBm/10 kHz (433.05-434.79 MHz) | None | None | EN 300 220 | Power density limited to -13 dBm/10 kHz for wideband modulation with a bandwidth greater than 250 kHz (Note 5) |
| | Non-specific SRDs | 10 mW e.r.p. (434.04-434.79 MHz) | None | Up to 25 kHz | EN 300 220 | (Note 5) |
| 401-402 MHz | Active medical implants and associated peripherals | 25 μW e.r.p. | LBT or duty cycle ≤0.1% (Note 3), p21 | 25 kHz | EN 302 537 | ITU-R RS.1346¹<br>Max occupied BW = 100 kHz |
| 402-405 MHz | Active medical implants and associated peripherals | 25 μW e.r.p. | (Note 4), p21 | 25 kHz | EN 301 839 | ITU-R RS.1346<br>Max occupied BW = 300 kHz<br>ERC/DEC/(01)17 |
| 405-406 MHz | Active medical implants and associated peripherals | 25 μW e.r.p. | LBT or duty cycle ≤0.1% (Note 4), p21) | 25 kHz | EN 302 537 | ITU-R RS.1346<br>Max occupied BW = 100 kHz |
| 446 – 446.2 MHz | PMR446 | 500 mW | | 12.5 kHz | EN 300 296 | |
| 470-786 MHz | Radio Microphones | 50 mW e.r.p. | None | None | | |
| 862-863 MHz | Non-specific SRDs | 25 mW e.r.p | ≤ 0.1% | ≤ 350 kHz | | |
| 863-865 MHz | Wireless Audio applications | 10 mW e.r.p. | None | None | EN 301 357 | |
| | Non-specific SRDs | 25 mW e.r.p. | ≤ 0.1% duty cycle or LBT+AFA | | | |
| 864.8-865 MHz | Wireless Audio applications | 10 mW e.r.p. | None | 50 kHz | EN 300 220 | Narrow band analogue voice devices (only this band) |
| 865-868 MHz | Non-specific SRDs | 25 mW e.r.p. | ≤ 1% duty cycle or LBT+AFA | | | |
| | Tracking, Tracing and Data Acquisition | 500 mW e.r.p. | Adaptive Power Control (APC) required for spectrum sharing (note 1) and the following duty cycle restrictions also apply: ≤ 10% duty cycle for network access points; ≤ 2.5% duty cycle otherwise | ≤ 200 kHz | | |
| 865.0-865.6 MHz | RFID | 100 mW e.r.p. | None | 200 kHz | EN 302 208 | (Note 13) |
| 865.6-867.6 MHz | RFID | 2 W e.r.p. | None | 200 kHz | EN 302 208 | |
| 867.6-868.0 MHz | RFID | 500 mW e.r.p. | None | 200 kHz | EN 302 208 | |
| 863-870 MHz | Non-specific SRDs | ≤ 25 mW e.r.p. | ≤ 0.1% or LBT (notes 1 and 5) | ≤ 100 kHz for 47 or more channels (note 3) | EN 300 220 | FHSS modulation<br>Note 4, Note 2, Note 7 and Note 9<br>Note (TZA) |
| | Non-specific SRDs | ≤ 25 mW e.r.p. (note 7) | ≤ 0.1% or LBT+AFA (notes 1, 6 and 7) | No spacing | EN 300 220 | DSSS and other wideband modulation other than FHSS (Notes 2, 4, 7 and 9)<br>Note (TZA) |
| | Non-specific SRDs | ≤ 25 mW e.r.p. | ≤ 0.1% or LBT+AFA (notes 1 and note 6) | ≤ 100 kHz, for 1 or more channels. Modulation bandwidth ≤ 300 kHz (note 3) | EN 300 220 | Narrow/wide-band modulation (Notes 2, 4, 7 and 9)<br>Note (TZA) |
| 868-868.6 MHz | Non-specific SRDs | ≤ 25 mW e.r.p. | ≤ 1% or LBT+AFA (note 1) | No spacing, for 1 or more channels (note 3) | EN 300 220 | Narrow / wide-band modulation. No channel spacing, however the whole stated frequency band may be used (Note 2) |
| 868.6-868.7 MHz | Alarms | 10 mW e.r.p. | ≤ 1% | 25 kHz | EN 300 220 | Or whole band may be used as 1 channel |
| 868.7-869.2 MHz | Non-specific SRDs | ≤ 25 mW e.r.p. | ≤ 0.1% or LBT+AFA (note 1) | No spacing, for 1 or more channels (note 3) | EN 300 220 | Narrow / wide-band modulation. No channel spacing, however the whole stated frequency band may be used<br>Note (TZA) |
| 869.25-869.3 MHz | Alarms | 10 mW e.r.p. | < 0.1% | 25 kHz | EN 300 220 | Note (TZA) |
| 869.2-869.25 MHz | Alarms | 10 mW e.r.p. | < 0.1% | 25 kHz | EN 300 220 | Social alarms<br>Note (TZA) |
| 869.3-869.4 MHz | Alarms | 10 mW e.r.p. | < 1% | 25 kHz | EN 300 220 | Note (TZA) |
| 869.400-869.650 MHz | Non-specific SRDs | ≤ 500 mW e.r.p. | ≤ 10% or LBT+AFA (note 1) | 25 kHz (for 1 or more channels) | EN 300 220 | Narrow / wide-band modulation<br>The whole stated frequency band may be used as 1 channel for high speed data transmission<br>Note (TZA) |
| 869.65-869.7 MHz | Alarms | 25 mW e.r.p. | < 10% | 25 kHz | EN 300 220 | Note (TZA) |
| 869.700-870.000 MHz | Non-specific SRDs | ≤ 5 mW e.r.p. | No requirement | No spacing (for 1 or more channels) | EN 300 220 | Narrow / wide-band modulation. No channel spacing, however the whole stated frequency band may be used (Note 5)<br>Note (TZA) |
| | Non-specific SRDs | ≤ 25 mW e.r.p. | up to 1% or LBT+AFA (note 1) | | | |
| 870-874.4 MHz | Tracking, Tracing and Data Acquisition | 500 mW e.r.p. | Adaptive Power Control (APC) required for spectrum sharing (note 1) and the following duty cycle restrictions also apply: ≤ 10% duty cycle for network access points; ≤ 2.5% duty cycle otherwise | ≤ 200 kHz | | |
| | Non-specific SRDs. | 25 mW e.r.p. | ≤ 1% duty cycle. For ER-GSM protection (873-876 MHz, where applicable): the duty cycle is limited to ≤ 0.01% and to a maximum transmit on time of 5ms/1s | ≤ 600 kHz | | |
| 2 446-2 454 MHz | RFID | ≤ 500 mW e.i.r.p. | None | None | EN 300 440 | 2 400-2 500 is a ISM band (RR No. 5.150)<br>(Note 12) |
| 2 446-2 454 MHz | | > 500 mW – 4 W e.i.r.p. | ≤ 15% FHSS techniques should be used | None | EN 300 440 | 2 400-2 500 is a ISM band (RR No. 5.150)<br>Power levels above 500 mW are restricted to be used inside the boundaries of a building and the duty cycle of all transmissions shall in this case be ≤15 % in any 200 ms period (30 ms on /170 ms off). (Note 12) |
| 2 400-2 483.5 MHz | Non-specific SRDs | 10 mW e.i.r.p. | None | None | EN 300 440 | 2 400-2 500 is a ISM band (RR No. 5.150) |
| | Wideband Data Transmission systems (WAS/RLANs) | 100 mW e.i.r.p. | See Rec 70-03 note 1 (p9) | None | EN 300 328 | 2 400-2 500 is a ISM band (RR No. 5.150)<br>ERC/DEC/(01)07 |
| | Radiodetermination | 25 mW e.i.r.p. | None | None | EN 300 440 | 2 400-2 500 is a ISM band (RR No. 5.150)<br>ERC/DEC/(01)08 |
| 2483.5-2500 MHz | Active Medical Implants | 10 dBm e.i.r.p. | LBT+AFA and ≤ 10% duty cycle. The equipment shall implement a spectrum access mechanism as described in the applicable harmonised standard or an equivalent spectrum access mechanism | 1 MHz | | For Low Power Active Medical Implants and associated peripherals, covered by the applicable harmonised standard. Individual transmitters may combine adjacent channels on a dynamic basis for increased bandwidth higher than 1 MHz. Peripheral units are for indoor use only. |
| 5 150-5 350 MHz | Wideband Data Transmission systems (WAS/RLANs) | 200 mW mean e.i.r.p. See note 4, p9 | See notes 1 and 3 (p9) | None | EN 301 893 | ECC/DEC/(04)08<br>Restricted to indoor use. The maximum mean e.i.r.p. density shall be limited to 10 mW/MHz in any 1 MHz band<br>For RLANs Resolution 229 (WRC-19) applies. |
| 5 470-5 725 MHz | Wideband Data Transmission systems (WAS/RLANs) | 250 mW e.r.p | See notes 1 and 3 (p9) | None | EN 301 893 | ECC/DEC/(04)08<br>Indoor as well as outdoor use allowed. The maximum mean e.i.r.p. density shall be limited to 50 mW/MHz in any 1 MHz band<br>In MWI, TZA and ZMB this band is used for BFWA on a licensed basis. |
| 5 725-5 875 MHz | Wideband data transmission BFWA is limited to 5725 - 5850 MHz (to protect satellite) | PTP/PTMP: max mean e.i.r.p = 4 W<br>Mesh/AP-MP: max mean e.i.r.p = 2 W | | | EN 302 502 | ISM band (RR No. 5.150)<br>One of the main bands for wideband data transmission and BFWA (incl. Wi-Fi in laptops, cell phones, etc.)<br>ECC/REC(06)04 refers<br>In MWI this band is used for BFWA on a licensed basis.<br>In AFS this band can be used up to 8W in specific circumstances (refer to national regulations)<br>Footnote 5.453 (WRC-19) applies |
| 5725-5875 MHz | Tracking, Tracing and Data Acquisition | 400 mW e.i.r.p. Adaptive Power Control (APC) required | Adequate spectrum sharing mechanisms (e.g. DFS and DAA) shall be implemented | ≥ 1 MHz and ≤ 20 MHz | | |
| 5 725-5 875 MHz | Non-specific SRDs | 25 mW e.i.r.p. | None | None | EN 300 440 | |
| 5 795-5 805 MHz | RTTT | 2 W e.i.r.p.<br>8 W e.i.r.p. | None | None | EN 300 674 | ECC/DEC/(02)01<br>Note 10 |
| 5 805-5 815 MHz | | | None | None | EN 300 674 | ECC/DEC/(02)01<br>For this band an individual licence in required in EU<br>Note 10 |
| 24.00-24.25 GHz | Non-specific SRDs | 100 mW e.i.r.p. | None | None | EN 300 440 | ISM band (RR No. 5.150) |
| | Radiodetermination | 100 mW e.i.r.p. | None | None | EN 300 440 | |
| | RTTT (24.05-24.075 GHz) | 100 mW e.i.r.p. | None | | EN 300 440 | For vehicle radars |
| | RTTT(24.075-24.15 GHz) | 0.1mW e.i.r.p. | None | | EN 300 440 | For vehicle radars |
| 24.15-24.25 GHz | RTTT | 100 mW e.i.r.p. | None | | EN 300 440 | For vehicle radars. The spectrum access and mitigation requirement is given for devices mounted behind a bumper. If mounted without a bumper, the requirement should be 3μs/40kHz maximum dwell time every 3ms |
| | | 100 mW e.i.r.p. | ≤ 1ms/40kHz dwell time every 40ms (note 1) | | EN 300 440 | The spectrum access and mitigation requirement is given for devices mounted either behind a bumper or mounted without a bumper |
| | | | None | | EN 300 440 | For vehicle radars |
| 57-64 GHz | Non-Specific SRDs | 100 mW e.i.r.p.<br>10 mW output power | None | None | | |
| 61.0-61.5 GHz | Non-specific SRDs | 100 mW e.i.r.p. | None | None | | ISM band (RR No. 5.138) |
| 76-77 GHz | RTTT | 55 dBm peak e.i.r.p. | None | None | EN 301 091 | ECC/DEC/(02)01<br>Power level 55 dBm peak power e.i.r.p. 50 dBm average power - 23.5 dBm average power for pulse radar only<br>Vehicle and infrastructure radar systems |
| 77-81 GHz | Automotive Short-Range Radars | | | | EN 302 264 | |
| 122-122.25 GHz | Non-Specific SRDs | 10 dBm/250MHz e.i.r.p.<br>-48 dBm/MHz at >30° elevation | None | None | | |
| 122.25-123 GHz | Non-Specific SRDs | 100 mW e.i.r.p. | None | None | | |
| 244-246 GHz | Non-Specific SRDs | 100 mW e.i.r.p. | None | None | | |

---

## Footnotes

**Note 1:** When either duty cycle, Listen-Before-Talk (LBT) or equivalent technique applies then it shall not be user dependent/adjustable and shall be guaranteed by appropriate technical means. For LBT devices without Adaptive Frequency Agility (AFA), or equivalent techniques, the duty cycle limit applies. For any type of frequency agile device the duty cycle limit applies to the total transmission unless LBT or equivalent technique is used.

**Note 2:** Audio and video applications are allowed provided that a digital modulation method is used with a maximum bandwidth of 300 kHz. Analogue and digital voice applications are allowed with a maximum bandwidth ≤ 25 kHz.

**Note 3:** The preferred channel spacing is 100 kHz allowing for a subdivision into 50 kHz or 25 kHz.

**Note 4:** Sub-bands for alarms are excluded (see ERC/REC 70-03 Annex 7).

**Note 5:** Audio and video applications are excluded. Analogue or digital voice applications are allowed with a maximum bandwidth ≤ 25 kHz and with spectrum access technique such as LBT or equivalent. The transmitter shall include a power output sensor controlling the transmitter to a maximum transmit period of 1 minute for each transmission.

**Note 6:** Duty cycle may be increased to 1% if the band is limited to 865-868 MHz.

**Note 7:** For other wide-band modulation than FHSS and DSSS with a bandwidth of 200 kHz to 3 MHz, duty cycle can be increased to 1% if the band is limited to 865-868 MHz and power to ≤10 mW e.r.p.

**Note 8:** The power density can be increased to +6.2 dBm/100 kHz and -0.8 dBm/100 kHz, if the band of operation is limited to 865-868 MHz and 865-870 MHz respectively.

**Note 9:** Certain channels may be occupied by RFID operating at higher powers (See Annex 11 for further details). To minimise the risk of interference from RFID, SRDs should use LBT with AFA or observe suitable separation distances. (In the high power RFID channels typically these may vary from 918 m (indoor) to 3.6 km (rural outdoor). In the remaining 2.2 MHz, where tags at -20 dBm e.r.p. occupy the spectrum, this may vary from 24 m (indoor) to 58 m (rural outdoor)). The adjacent frequency bands below 862 MHz and above 870 MHz may be used by high power systems. Manufacturers should take this into account in the design of equipment and choice of power levels.

**Note 10:** The frequency band 5795-5805 MHz is intended for road to vehicle systems, particularly (but not exclusively) road toll systems. The frequency bands 5795-5805 MHz and 5805-5815 MHz are recommended for 5 MHz channel spacing systems with the frequencies: 5797.5 MHz, 5802.5 MHz, 5807.5 MHz and 5812.5 MHz. For 10 MHz channel spacing systems 5800 MHz and 5810 MHz. 5805 - 5815 MHz on a national basis for multi-lane road junctions, particularly, but not exclusively road toll systems. The use of 8 W e.i.r.p. allows for 1 Mbit/s in accordance with ETSI standard ES 200 674-1. 2W e.i.r.p. allows for 500 kbit/s downlink and 250 kbit/s uplink in accordance with EN 300 674-1 and for low data rates (31 kbit/s) in accordance with EN 300 674-2.

**Note 11:** Antenna size of < 1/20 λ (see note 1) RFIDs operating in the frequency sub-band 119-135 kHz shall meet the spectrum mask given in EN 300 330. This will permit a simultaneous use of the various sub-bands within the range 90 – 148.5 kHz.

**Note 12:** 2 400-2 500 is a ISM band (RR No. 5.150).

**Note 13:** RFID operating in the frequency band 865-868 MHz shall comply with SADC spectrum management guidelines.
